new revelations about the night a deputy
traveling at triple digit speeds struck
and killed two other deputies nearly six
years to the day the contact five
investigators katie LaGrone has the
never-before-heard details about the
investigation that followed the crash
Katie
Michael Thanksgiving Day will mark six
years since a Palm Beach County k-9
corporal struck and killed deputies
Jonathan Wallace and Dante Manuel for
the first time tonight we hear from a
former insider why she believes criminal
charges should have been filed
along this remote stretch of sugar farm
country stands two reminders of one
night it was very expensive the same
ones and the questions and it was very
gruesome that seemed to die with them in
this case I think this man got away with
two counts of vehicular homicide the
case brought a county to tears and
you've never spoken about this publicly
before you know why made it a job now
retired from the State Attorney's Office
I just kept thinking it can't get much
worse than this Ellen Roberts was chief
of the traffic homicide unit
she's a stolen car isn't tragedy the
night Palm Beach County Sheriff Deputies
Dante Manuel and Jonathan Wallace was
struck and killed by corporal Greg
Fernandez all I ever fought for was
justice and there was no justice here
it's something deputy Wallace's mother
cried for then that the truth is not
totally Devi but never be told to Mara
and now maybe six years later they think
oh she she need to let it go no I will
fight until I hear the real November 28
2007 began with a report of a stolen car
patrol units trail the thief while 33
year old veteran deputy Manuel and 23
year old rookie Wallace were in the dark
distance on foot to point stop sticks
everything like textbook until k9
corporal Greg Fernandez is ordered to
lead the pack he speeds up to pass going
northbound in the southbound lane when
he collides with Manuel and Wallace
upon impact investigators clocked his
speed at 111 miles per hour it looked
like a battle scene by the time Roberts
arrived daylight exposed a typically
desolate route 7:15 stained in human
tragedy I thought this is the worst I
think I've seen a day after the crash
Sheriff Rick Bradshaw was on the record
with an explanation everything was
working just right until the two
deputies decided to go out and manually
retract those sticks why they decided
that we don't know because we can't ask
them it's like blaming them let's blame
them let's blame them forget about the
fact that this man's driving on an 11
miles an hour then State Attorney Barry
crusher who now works as a contractor
for the sheriff would also question why
before concluding in his closeout memo
that the crash was a quote tragic
accident
corporal Fernandez's actions were not
negligent not careless and not criminal
what was your reaction
had I not needed my job I probably would
have resigned at that point this case
meant so much to you we locked young
kids up for years for drag racing and
they weren't going as fast as this guy
and it just doesn't set you know it just
doesn't set an officer going triple
digit speed on a pitch-black road over a
crime Robert says was hardly worth the
risk
what were they pursuing a 17 year old
car with some kid that stole it and
that's worth driving a hundred and
eleven hundred and fifteen hundred 25
miles an hour no one can drive
reasonably at that speed the lead
investigator from the Sheriff's Office
apparently agreed sources tell me his
early report recommended the state
attorney file criminal charges PBSO is
refusing to give us a copy of it calling
that document a draft not a public
record we had all agreed with the
officers and I've spoken to that charges
needed to be filed and then they weren't
this is the only traffic homicide that
never made it to my desk wasn't this
your case I certainly thought so why did
it go around you
that's a good question I wish I knew the
last response I've received one year one
month six days after his death was it is
what it is
Jonathan's mother Reverend Patricia
Wallace and all I wanted was the truth
and I never got that still believes I
never got that truth there is more yet
to be told
can you imagine being deceived that you
gave them a whole man to serve and
protect the county then they gave you
back pieces of a body and the pain cess
of speed of believing justice equals
vehicular homicide never arrived no
doubt about it no doubt in my mind
neither former State Attorney Barry
crusher or anyone with the Palm Beach
County Sheriff's Office would speak with
us about Ellen Roberts claims we did get
a statement which reads in part the
Sheriff's Office submitted all relevant
investigative information and expert
opinions to then State Attorney Barry
crusher the ultimate decision as to
prosecution was solely his those expert
opinions referenced were three
independent reviews of the crash paid
for by the Sheriff's Office and Michael
Kelly meantime we are pursuing a legal
fight with the Sheriff's Office to get
access to the report mentioned in our
story the one we're told
including a recommendation for criminal
charges Katie thank you